---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

## About this blog

When I was a Math student, every day at 3pm I and my friends used to sit at the
coffee room in Unicamp Math Institute (IMECC, in Portuguese it means Institute
for Math, Statistics and Scientific Computation) to drink coffee, discuss
Mathematics and whatever came to mind. Usually the topic was related to Linear
Algebra, sometimes to Higher Algebra, Analysis and, depending on who was there,
Computer Science.

After I changed major to Computer Science, I continued to wander through IMECC
and kept going to the coffee room to discuss Mathematics and Computer Science.
Then, in 2010, I and Daniel Cariello decided to create a blog dedicated to
those moments and called it Café Linear, a pun with Café (coffee) and Álgebra
Linear (Linear Algebra).

After a while, interest faded out and the blog went dormant. Hosting costs were
higher back then, we were students, so we decided to stop blogging. I kept the
domain, though.

I’m a domain addict, I own several domains because I couldn’t settle for a name
I liked, even if it was my own name (I own douglasdrumond.com, but I let
douglasdrumond.com.br slip, which is a pity, since I’m Brazilian). But I always
liked Café Linear and, although it was originally in Portuguese, it can be used in
English, like if it was a name for a coffee shop. And I love coffee.

So, time to blog again and here I’ll put all my thoughts related to programming
and app development, mostly Android, sometimes Mac (because of MacVim), and,
probably rarely, Math.

## About me

First, I love coffee. If I could choose another blog to magically make my own,
it would be [I Love Coffee](http://ilovecoffee.jp). Go follow it, it’s nice.
There’s an [English version](http://en.ilovecoffee.jp), too.

I’m an Android developer at [Movile](http://www.movile.com). I used to work for
[Swipes](http://www.swipesapp.com/) in the beginning of Android app
development, but I’m no longer involved in day to day development.

Previously I worked at [Eldorado Research
Institute](http://www.eldorado.org.br/en/) on low level stuff (Android
platform, modem, C, C++, NDK and things like that), also a few months on iOS
and, despite all the jokes I make at work, I like both.

I’m the current maintainer for [MacVim](https://code.google.com/p/macvim/).

I graduated in Computer Science, but I have a secret love for Applied
Mathematics (I almost majored in Applied Mathematics) and how to use both to
solve problems. Due to that, I had a small gap in my mobile career when
I opened a startup on Business Intelligence, called Y-Max (from Yield
Maximization), before returning to Android.

I’m the founder and one of the organizers of 
[Google Developer Group Campinas](http://www.gdg-campinas.org/).

I practice karate, kendō, <del>shodō</del> (not taking classes anymore, just
practicing at home), go and I’m learning Japanese language.

_Disclaimer_: Views expressed here are my own and do not represent those of
Movile, Swipes, GDG Campinas, the Little Green Robot or the Invisible Ninja
that follow me all day long. In fact, disclaimers are stupid and offer no legal
protection, I don’t know why I’m writing this. I guess it’s just another
opportunity to write a bad joke.
