talks.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Talks
permalink: /talks/
background: /assets/images/cover.jpg
---

_All my talks are in Portuguese for now._

Some talks are in HTML and you should see them as regular pages in your browser.
Most of them are slides in SpeakerDeck site and can be embedded here. To avoid the
HTML talks title-only links being lost in the middle of the others, they’re in 
separate sections below.

## HTML browseable talks

<a href="flisol-campinas-2013/#2">Dentro do Robozinho Verde (e como torná-lo do
jeito que quiser)</a> – Presented at FLISOL Campinas 2013

<a href="devfest-br-2012/#2">Dentro do Robozinho Verde (e como torná-lo da
cor que quiser)</a> – Presented at DevFest Brasil 2012

## Embedded

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="aea726a7a6634705875330d17627aeca" data-ratio="1.77777777777778" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
Primeiros Passos com Google Fit – [3 Anos de Android Meetup – GDG São Paulo](http://www.eventick.com.br/3-anos-de-android-meetup/)


<script async class="speakerdeck-embed"
data-id="34f86b74e9304fca8302b0b603c8335c" data-ratio="1.77777777777778"
src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
RxJava - [Android Dev Conference
2015](http://androidconference.imasters.com.br/) and [QCon
RJ](http://qconrio.com/presentation/programacao-funcional-reativa-no-android-com-rxjava/rxandroid)

<iframe
src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1dXTgyG6UW7EPEt2LgFL-O1sCls4IVrhecZDWPbVyf_U/embed?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000"
frameborder="0" width="640" height="389" allowfullscreen="true"
mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true"></iframe>
RxJava - [The Developers Conference 2015](http://www.thedevelopersconference.com.br/tdc/2015/saopaulo/trilha-android)

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1KzByJ3BS5UTLN8FCj7BwcMnEDE6NoovaUQRVo9TVzOw/embed?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000" frameborder="0" width="640" height="389" allowfullscreen="true" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true"></iframe>
Desenvolvendo para Android Wear - [Movile Meetup – 2015-06-23](http://www.meetup.com/Movile-Meetup/events/223183266/)

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="ec0deb778e27428485aa4f13ed68813a" data-ratio="1.33333333333333" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
Programando para Android Wear – [GDG Talks @ Ci&T 2015-03-04](https://plus.google.com/104323881166104132817/posts/54d3WeRFUWn)

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="b4ad56b0028c0132492042912cd7a191" data-ratio="1.77777777777778" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
Android Wear & Google Glass — [MobCamp 2014](http://www.mobcamp.com.br/)

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="0dce46109d7701308e931a9333edbc11" data-ratio="1.33333333333333" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
Layouts Flexíveis no Android — Presented at [DevCamp 2013](http://www.devcamp.com.br/)

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="1b7a36b0945501307a7f0a0af8211b7b" data-ratio="1.33333333333333" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
[FLISOL] Android Faixa Branca (iniciando no Android) — Presented at [FLISOL Campinas 2013](http://www.flisolcampinas.net/)

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="8969e84094bf0130ceff62d24062172a" data-ratio="1.33333333333333" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
[FLISOL] Embelezando o Android — Presented at [FLISOL Campinas 2013](http://www.flisolcampinas.net/)

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="a26f78909a900130649f421ffa4f0f44" data-ratio="1.33333333333333" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
[FAAT] Android Faixa Branca — Presented at [IT Week at FAAT](http://www.faat.com.br/site/noticias01.asp?noticia=1639) 2012

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="14e264c094520130915f0e4795300af2" data-ratio="1.33333333333333" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
[Unicamp Forum Permanente] Android Faixa Branca — Presented at [Forum Permanente de Software Livre 2011](http://www.foruns.unicamp.br/foruns/)

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="f7282290944f01303c2066b9f45142b7" data-ratio="1.33333333333333" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
Android 下忍 — Presented at Free Software Seminar at Unicamp (2011)

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="27b29a8094540130d1bd6e09463ce40c" data-ratio="1.33333333333333" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
[Android Dev Camp] Android Bootcamp — Presented at Android DevCamp with GTUG-SP (now GDG-SP)

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="f63a7dc09a92013064a0421ffa4f0f44" data-ratio="1.33333333333333" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
Vim, vi, venci — Presented to freshmen at Unicamp (2010)

Commit message:

Add note to outdated information

talks.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Talks
permalink: /talks/
background: /assets/images/cover.jpg
---

_This is an outdated list, it's been a while I don't give any talks._

_All my talks are in Portuguese._

Some talks are in HTML and you should see them as regular pages in your browser.
Most of them are slides in SpeakerDeck site and can be embedded here. To avoid the
HTML talks title-only links being lost in the middle of the others, they’re in 
separate sections below.

## HTML browseable talks

<a href="flisol-campinas-2013/#2">Dentro do Robozinho Verde (e como torná-lo do
jeito que quiser)</a> – Presented at FLISOL Campinas 2013

<a href="devfest-br-2012/#2">Dentro do Robozinho Verde (e como torná-lo da
cor que quiser)</a> – Presented at DevFest Brasil 2012

## Embedded

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="aea726a7a6634705875330d17627aeca" data-ratio="1.77777777777778" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
Primeiros Passos com Google Fit – [3 Anos de Android Meetup – GDG São Paulo](http://www.eventick.com.br/3-anos-de-android-meetup/)


<script async class="speakerdeck-embed"
data-id="34f86b74e9304fca8302b0b603c8335c" data-ratio="1.77777777777778"
src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
RxJava - [Android Dev Conference
2015](http://androidconference.imasters.com.br/) and [QCon
RJ](http://qconrio.com/presentation/programacao-funcional-reativa-no-android-com-rxjava/rxandroid)

<iframe
src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1dXTgyG6UW7EPEt2LgFL-O1sCls4IVrhecZDWPbVyf_U/embed?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000"
frameborder="0" width="640" height="389" allowfullscreen="true"
mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true"></iframe>
RxJava - [The Developers Conference 2015](http://www.thedevelopersconference.com.br/tdc/2015/saopaulo/trilha-android)

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1KzByJ3BS5UTLN8FCj7BwcMnEDE6NoovaUQRVo9TVzOw/embed?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000" frameborder="0" width="640" height="389" allowfullscreen="true" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true"></iframe>
Desenvolvendo para Android Wear - [Movile Meetup – 2015-06-23](http://www.meetup.com/Movile-Meetup/events/223183266/)

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="ec0deb778e27428485aa4f13ed68813a" data-ratio="1.33333333333333" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
Programando para Android Wear – [GDG Talks @ Ci&T 2015-03-04](https://plus.google.com/104323881166104132817/posts/54d3WeRFUWn)

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="b4ad56b0028c0132492042912cd7a191" data-ratio="1.77777777777778" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
Android Wear & Google Glass — [MobCamp 2014](http://www.mobcamp.com.br/)

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="0dce46109d7701308e931a9333edbc11" data-ratio="1.33333333333333" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
Layouts Flexíveis no Android — Presented at [DevCamp 2013](http://www.devcamp.com.br/)

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="1b7a36b0945501307a7f0a0af8211b7b" data-ratio="1.33333333333333" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
[FLISOL] Android Faixa Branca (iniciando no Android) — Presented at [FLISOL Campinas 2013](http://www.flisolcampinas.net/)

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="8969e84094bf0130ceff62d24062172a" data-ratio="1.33333333333333" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
[FLISOL] Embelezando o Android — Presented at [FLISOL Campinas 2013](http://www.flisolcampinas.net/)

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="a26f78909a900130649f421ffa4f0f44" data-ratio="1.33333333333333" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
[FAAT] Android Faixa Branca — Presented at [IT Week at FAAT](http://www.faat.com.br/site/noticias01.asp?noticia=1639) 2012

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="14e264c094520130915f0e4795300af2" data-ratio="1.33333333333333" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
[Unicamp Forum Permanente] Android Faixa Branca — Presented at [Forum Permanente de Software Livre 2011](http://www.foruns.unicamp.br/foruns/)

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="f7282290944f01303c2066b9f45142b7" data-ratio="1.33333333333333" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
Android 下忍 — Presented at Free Software Seminar at Unicamp (2011)

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="27b29a8094540130d1bd6e09463ce40c" data-ratio="1.33333333333333" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
[Android Dev Camp] Android Bootcamp — Presented at Android DevCamp with GTUG-SP (now GDG-SP)

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="f63a7dc09a92013064a0421ffa4f0f44" data-ratio="1.33333333333333" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
Vim, vi, venci — Presented to freshmen at Unicamp (2010)
