---
layout: post
title: "Evernote Hackathon Brazil"
date: "2012-11-14"
categories: "events"
tags: ["hackathon"]
author: "Douglas Drumond"
background: /assets/images/cover.jpg
---

Last weekend (Nov 10–11), Evernote held the second edition of Evernote
Hackathon Brazil. It was my first 24H hackathon and it was very exciting. I had
participated in two hackathons before, but the doors were shut down at night.

## The trip

The hackathon was held in [São Paulo
city](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sao_Paulo) at [Academia
Wayra](http://wayra.org/en), a startup incubator located in a very cool
building with a nice view. It was the first time [Pinheiros
river](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pinheiros_River) looked nice.
_Edited: fixed river name._

![View from building]({{ "/assets/article_images/2012-11-14-evernote-hackathon/view-small.jpg" | prepend: site.url }})

I live in [Campinas](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Campinas), approximately 100
km from São Paulo. I had agreed with a friend to go by car and split the fees
(gas, toll and parking, the latter being the most expensive), but, fortunately,
[Unicamp](http://www.unicamp.br/unicamp/?language=en) (my alma mater) provided
a bus (for free! YAY!) for Campinas participants.

People said the driver got lost in São Paulo (this isn’t uncommon), but I don’t
know, I just remember turning on some music on my phone and a friend
calling me: “wake up, we arrived.”

## Reception

After getting the badges, we went upstairs to the floor where it the hackathon
would take place and we met [Luis
Samra](http://www.linkedin.com/pub/luis-samra/0/625/739), from Evernote, who
introduced us to [Julien Boedec](http://www.linkedin.com/in/julienboedec), also
from Evernote.  These guys are very fun, I felt completely at home talking to
them.  Talk about that later. There were a bunch of tables, we could choose
anyone. In fact, this was the workplace of the startups incubated at Wayra.
Inspiring, isn’t it? So, I set up my hackathon startup with my friend
[Suelen](http://twitter.com/suelenapsilva) and it was time for breakfast.

## The food

The food were hackathon-kind of food. [Cheese
bun](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cheese_bun), sandwich, juice, soda, coffee
all day long and pizza for dinner. Evernote wasn’t cheap, there were tons of
food and quality was nice. Red Bull and beer for free as well (it surprised me
nobody got drunk).

![People eating]({{ "/assets/article_images/2012-11-14-evernote-hackathon/food-small.jpg" | prepend: site.url }})

## Gadgets

Samsung provided 12 Galaxy Note 10.1 and some [Galaxy
Cameras](http://www.samsung.com/global/microsite/galaxycamera/).  Although I
found the idea of a camera running Android quite cool, I didn’t have enough
time to fiddle with it. There was one group that used it to do image
recognition app (if I recall correctly, this was the group that won second
prize).

On the other hand, I played a lot with the tablet. I own a 1st gen iPad, and
I’m used to its response time (for the UI), so everything slower is laggy for
me. I worked for Motorola before (as a contractor) doing integration and
solving bugs for Latin America releases (sometimes Canada also) and I used
Motorola XOOM, XOOM 2 and XOOM 2 ME a lot. When I worked there, the tablets ran
Honeycomb. Motorola XOOM felt very responsive, but XOOM 2 was a little laggy
(worse than first generation XOOM), although way more beautiful, thinner and,
of course, lighter. So, I sticked to my iPad until now. Not that my tablet is
starting to show it’s age, I’m really considering buying the Samsung Galaxy
Note 10.1.  It doesn’t feature a super resolution as Nexus 10 (or even 3rd and
4th generation iPad), but it’s not unpleasant to look at, the design is good
enough and, what won me, it has a pen. What? A stylus? Jobs said “from the
moment you need a stylus, you’re doomed,” don’t you agree? Indeed, I agree. But
notice he said “**need**” and this tablet does not need it. You can perfectly
use it without the pen. But have you tried to draw something with your fingers
or those fat point pen for capacitive screens? It’s terrible. Galaxy Note 10.1
has the best of both worlds.  It’s practical to use your fingers for day to day
operation and the stylus when precision is required.

## The hackathon and my app

The requirement for the hackathon was an app that could run on Samsung Galaxy
Note 10.1, although it didn’t need to require special features of the tablet.
Bonus point for using it, but it could be even a web app. In college, I tried
to take notes using [Cornell note-taking
system](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cornell_Notes), and this was our app. The
fun part was in programming the main area. We decided to let the user draw with
the finger or S-Pen, so it was a big canvas. There should be a way to put some
text (typing) for long text notes (handwriting isn’t good at tablets).  It
should allow zoom to achieve better precision. And it should synchronize with
Evernote. For the canvas with textedit I decided to develop a custom component,
but I needed to remember a lot of things. Fortunately,
[Chiuki](http://www.twitter.com/chiuki), from [Square
Island](http://www.sqisland.com) has a [series of
talks](http://www.sqisland.com/talks/) on [Android custom
components](http://www.sqisland.com/talks/android-custom-components/#1).  I
skimmed through that one and [Deep Dive into Android Custom
Components](http://www.sqisland.com/talks/deep-dive-android-custom-components/#1)
to get an idea. In the end, I realized it wouldn’t be possible to make the
component and format the note (remember, it should synchronize with Evernote),
so I just implemented the drawing part. The code is so ugly and full of hacks I
won’t publish it right now, but I plan to clean it a little (it’s holiday in
Brazil on Thursday) and publish it on github.

## Peopleware

The best part of the hackathon was meeting with awesome people. I already told
about Luis Samra and Julien Boedec. Also, I talked a lot with [Ty
Smith](http://www.linkedin.com/in/tylervsmith) and [Seth
Hitchings](http://www.linkedin.com/in/tylervsmith). I hadn’t interacted much
with [Lindsey Smith](http://lsmith.me), but when I needed her opinion on my UI,
she was very supportive (in fact, this was very common, all Evernote staff was
very supportive and knowledgeable, I would hire all of them if I had the chance
;) ). In previous Hackathons I took part at, there were nice people also, but
in this one the availabilty of them were at another level. I didn’t remember a
time when I saw the staff slacking. Every time they’re walking by and asking
us if everything was alright and if we needed help. Very nice.

Finally, the surprise was meeting [Ana Carolina
Merighe](http://www.linkedin.com/pub/ana-carolina-merighe/2/1b3/a97), who studied at
Unicamp too, and [Bruno Mazzoco](http://www.linkedin.com/in/brunomazzoco), from
Samsung, who also worked at Eldorado Research Institute (my former employer).


![Unicamp and Evernote]({{ "/assets/article_images/2012-11-14-evernote-hackathon/unicamp-small.jpg" | prepend: site.url }})

## Conclusion

It was an awesome experience and I’ll do it again next year. Hackathons are
great to meet smart people and get fresh ideas.


*Edit: clarified __Peopleware__ section*
