---
layout: post
title: "The Setup"
date: "2014-02-23"
categories: ""
tags: [""]
author: "Douglas Drumond"
background: /assets/images/cover.jpg
---

_There are a lot of posts about how someone uses their computer to get the job
done. One of my favorite sites that compiles a list of posts like that is [The
Setup](http://usesthis.com/). As I like to keep track of what I use, I’m doing
my own The Setup-like post to open this blog._

## Who are you, and what do you do?

I’m [Douglas Drumond](http://google.com/+DouglasDrumond), Android developer at
[Movile](http://www.movile.com/) and organizer of [GDG
Campinas](http://www.gdg-campinas.org/). I blog here about anything and on
[Roboto Dojo](http://www.robotodojo.com/) about Android development (in
Portuguese). I’ve been working with Android since 2010, except for a brief
hiatus when I opened my start up on business intelligence with some partners,
although I never lost complete contact with Android. After failing with the
start up, I came back to mobile development and now I focus 100% on Android.

## What hardware do you use?

I use a [Dell Inspiron 14R](http://www.dell.com/us/p/inspiron-14r-5437/pd) at
home, attached to a [LG
22LE6500](http://www.lg.com/hk_en/tvs/lg-22LE6500-led-lcd-tv) television. At
work, I use a [Mac mini](https://www.apple.com/mac-mini/) with two LG displays.
I use a [Galaxy Nexus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Galaxy_Nexus) as my main
phone and a [Motorola RAZR i](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Motorola_RAZR_i)
that Intel gave me at a NDK course. I use a [Samsung Galaxy Note
10.1](http://www.samsung.com/us/mobile/galaxy-tab/GT-N8013EAYXAR?) from 2012.
I used to read a lot on my old [Kindle
keyboard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amazon_Kindle#Kindle_Keyboard) while
commuting, but since I joined Movile I go by bike and carry no gadgets beside
a cell phone, so I don’t read as much as I want. I still have my [iPhone
3GS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPhone_3GS) to play [Taiko no
Tatsujin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taiko_no_Tatsujin_(iOS)) and Guitar
Hero and my [first gen
iPad](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPad_(1st_generation)) to play [Taiko no
Tatsujin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taiko_no_Tatsujin_(iOS)) (again) and
read [Go books](http://gobooks.com/).

## And what software?

I use Linux since 1999 and abandoned Windows in 2004. In 2008 I bought a Mac
and fell in love with OS X. It combines a nice GUI with great underhood OS
(it’s a Unix, afterall). This year I bought a Dell laptop and I’m back to Linux
at home with [Ubuntu 13.10](http://www.ubuntu.com/). It feels great.

For Android development, I use [Android
Studio](https://developer.android.com/sdk/installing/studio.html) and I cry in
pain every time I need to use Eclipse. When it’s not Android related (sometimes
even when it is) I use [Vim](http://www.vim.org/). I used to provide binaries
for [MacVim](https://code.google.com/p/macvim/) on OS X 10.7 and 10.8, but
after my MacBook Air broke, I can’t build for 10.8 anymore. I like vim so much
that I’m always thinking in using it for Android development too. Even my
browsers are vimified.

And talking about browsers, I browse the web on [Google
Chrome](https://www.google.com/intl/en/chrome/browser/) or [Mozilla
Firefox](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/new/) with
[Vimium](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/vimium/dbepggeogbaibhgnhhndojpepiihcmeb?hl=en)
(Chrome) and [VimFx](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/vimfx/)
(Firefox) extensions. I use Google stuff for almost everything, Gmail, Blog,
Drive, Google Apps for your domain, you name it.

[GitHub](https://github.com/) for public repos and
[Bitbucket](https://bitbucket.org/) for private ones.

When I use a Mac, there a lot of tools I rely on to boost productivity, such as
[Alfred](http://www.alfredapp.com/),
[PCKeyboardHack](https://pqrs.org/macosx/keyremap4macbook/pckeyboardhack.html.en),
[KeyRemap4MacBook](https://pqrs.org/macosx/keyremap4macbook/index.html.en)&nbsp;and
[Keyboard Maestro](http://www.keyboardmaestro.com/main/). I use
[f.lux](http://justgetflux.com/) to save my eyes. Now I’m trying to set up
a similar configuration on Linux, still unsuccessful. I used to save my notes
on Evernote, but its app is becoming slower and slower, it lacks a native Linux
client (there are 3rd party alternatives, but I didn’t like any) and its web
counterpart isn’t so nice to use, so I’m looking for alternatives. For now, I’m
sticking with it, but I’m experimenting with [Google
Keep](https://drive.google.com/keep/u/0/) and
[Simplenote](http://simplenote.com/).

Under Linux, I use default terminal, my Mac runs iTerm2. My shell of choice is
Zsh.

## What would be your dream setup?

I like the idea of Chromebooks. Use a lot of remote stuff and let the companies
deal with infrastructure, backups and so on. Log in from another chromebook and
everything is there. But it should have same speed as my local PC and great
development tools also. I hate configuring things, I’d like to grab another
computer, log in and it just works.
