---
layout: post
title: "Technically Speaking hangout on LAtINiTY conference"
date: "2015-05-19"
categories: ""
tags: [""]
author: "Douglas Drumond"
---

**TL;DR:** Technically Speaking is hosting a webinar on LAtINiTY conference and you
should watch. [Signup here.](http://dd19.tk/ts-webinar-latinity)

Do you know [_Technically Speaking_](http://www.techspeak.email/)? It's a great
newsletter with tips to improve your tech talks, inspirational videos and call
for papers delivered direct to your inbox. This newsletter is provided by
Chiu-Ki Chan ([site](http://www.sqisland.com/), [Google
Plus](https://google.com/+ChiuKiChan) and
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/chiuki)) and Cate Huston
([site](http://www.catehuston.com/) and
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/catehstn)). 

For those who don't know them, let me give a brief introdution:

Chiu-Ki was a software engineer at Google for 6+ years, later worked at two
startups and now has her own mobile development company. Also, she's a [GDE
(Google Developer Expert) on
Android](https://developers.google.com/experts/people/chiu-ki-chan) and if
you're interested in Android, check her [talks](http://chiuki.github.io/),
[blog](http://blog.sqisland.com/) and
[courses](http://www.pluralsight.com/author/chiuki-chan). She's also an
organizer of [GDG
Boulder](https://developers.google.com/groups/chapter/110545238773247324753/)

Cate Huston was also on Google and Extreme Blue@IBM (a premier internship at
IBM) and had published on
[Lifehacker](http://www.lifehacker.com.au/author/cate-huston/) and [The
Eloquent Woman](http://eloquentwoman.blogspot.co.uk/). Check her [about
page](http://www.catehuston.com/blog/about/) to see all her achievements.

Back to the point, Technically Speaking hosts a monthly hangout on public
speaking. This month, the hangout is with [Natalie
Gil](https://twitter.com/ratalie) from [LAtINiTY
Conference](http://www.latinity.info/), Latin American Women in Technology. The
hangout will occur on May 21 at 1pm PDT (8pm UTC). To participate in the
hangout, [register here](http://dd19.tk/ts-webinar-latinity).

LAtINiTY is a two day conference with focus on Latin America women passionated
with technology, where they can listen to women leaders from Latin America and
discuss gender issues in tech. It will occur on November 9â€“10 in Santiago,
Chile and [pre-registration is open](http://www.latinity.info/).

Last, but not least, you can also follow [Technically Speaking on
Twitter](https://twitter.com/techspeakdigest).
