---
layout: page
title: About
description: "When two Math students meet to drink coffee, weird ideas come"
permalink: /about/
featured_image: /assets/images/cover.jpg
menu:
  main:
    weight: 1
---

## This blog

When I was a Math student, every day at 3pm my friends and I used to sit at the
coffee room in Unicamp Math Institute (IMECC, in Portuguese it means Institute
for Math, Statistics and Scientific Computation) to drink coffee, discuss
Mathematics and whatever came to mind. Usually the topic was related to Linear
Algebra, sometimes to Higher Algebra, Analysis and, depending on who was there,
Computer Science.

After I changed major to Computer Science, I continued to wander through IMECC
and kept going to the coffee room to discuss Mathematics and Computer Science.
Then, in 2010, Daniel Cariello and I decided to create a blog dedicated to
those moments and called it Café Linear, a pun with Café (coffee) and Álgebra
Linear (Linear Algebra).

After a while, interest faded out and the blog went dormant. Hosting costs were
higher back then, we were students, and we decided to stop blogging. I kept the
domain, though.

I’m a domain addict, I own several domains because I couldn’t settle for a name
I liked, not even when it was my own name. But I always liked Café Linear and,
although it doesn't make sense in either language (lit. it means "linear
coffee"), it sounds like a name for a coffee shop. And I love coffee. That's how
I got the first domain for this blog and it stayed up for a while. Later, I decided
to use my own name and changed the domain, but I kept this as historical record.

So, time to blog again and here I’ll put all my thoughts related to management
and software engineering.

## Me

I'm married to an [amazing wife](https://twitter.com/letochie) who's always
supporting me in whatever I do.

I love coffee, [photography](https://www.flickr.com/photos/douglasdrumz) and
[motorcycles](https://www.instagram.com/dkmichi).

I'm an engineering manager, developer and instructor.I started doing web
development back when we used to be called webmasters and take care of
everything, from database to server configuration to the code itself. Later
I moved to mobile and did a lot of Android development.

I graduated in Computer Science from Unicamp (Brazil), but I have a secret love
for Applied Mathematics (I almost majored in Applied Mathematics, finishing 85%
of the course) and how to use both to solve problems. I have an MBA degree in
Business Analytics and Big Data from FGV (Getulio Vargas Foundation, Brazil).
I'm also an MSc student in Computer Science with Artificial Intelligence at
University of York, UK.

_Disclaimer_: Views expressed here are my own and do not represent those of my
current or past employers, or anyone else, except when noted.

