---
author: Douglas Drumond
featured_image: /assets/images/cover.jpg
categories: events
date: "2012-11-24T00:00:00Z"
tags:
- Android
title: I’ll talk in DevFest Brasil
---

This year we won’t have Google Developer Day. Instead, Google
Developer Groups are organizing their own events called
[DevFest.](http://devfest.info) These are pretty much like Google
Developer Day with some extras. For instance, in GDDs, we didn’t have
codelabs with hands on, just 1h (approx) long talks about a variety of
topics Google related.

One other thing that changed are the speakers. On GDD, all were Google
Employees or invited by Google. On DevFest, the speakers are from
community. There are some Google employees as well, but anyone could
submit a talk, so I did it. When I saw the schedule, my talk wasn’t
there, no big deal, there are a lot of great talks, mine wasn’t chosen,
no problem. I would go to the event in any way. For my surprise, there
was an error when publishing the schedule and, in fact, my talk is in.

So, next Friday, Nov 30th, I’ll talk about Android internals.
Android is open source, right? You can download the source from
[source.android.com,](http://source.android.com) play with it,
compile and load your build into your device (there are some
restrictions on some devices), but most of the talks and books
are about developing apps for Android. This is great, most people
are interested in apps, it’s where the money is and it’s a lot of
fun. I benefited from previous talks about apps (see my [Evernote
Hackathon post]({% post_url 2012-11-14-evernote-hackathon-brazil %}))
to develop my own, I’m not criticizing. But how about the internals?
When I worked at Eldorado Research Institute, we worked with
Android internals and I always missed references on this. Later
came Android Builders Summit and Karim Yaghmour’s [Embedded
Android](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920021094.do) (still in
beta), but that’s it. So, I would like to introduce the internals and
show it’s not so difficult as it seems to hack Android. Also, learning
Android internals leads to better app developers because they’ll know
what to expect from the inside, what happens behind the curtains.

There’s enough time to register for [DevFest
Brasil](http://www.devfest.com.br/), see you there.
